=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 README for filter authors

This template makes extensive use of L<< the Data::Rmap
module|https://metacpan.org/pod/Data::Rmap >> to iterate recursively
through the Pandoc document data, so you should read the documentation
of that module.

It also, of course, uses L<< the JSON
module|https://metacpan.org/pod/JSON >>, so you may want to familiarize
yourself with that.

You should also familiarize yourself with pandoc's JSON output, not
least to learn what kind of data pandoc expects a filter to return!

As a Perl hacker you may be best helped by seeing what the Perl data
structures look like which the JSON module makes out of the JSON it
receives from pandoc. That's very easy if you use JSON::XS and have
L<< the Data::Dump module|https://metacpan.org/pod/Data::Rmap >>
installed:

    $ pandoc -w json | json_xs -t dump
    *   Some *emphatic* Markdown with `code`{#id .class attr=val}.
    [
      { unMeta => {} },
      [
        {
          c => [
                 [
                   {
                     c => [
                            { c => "Some", t => "Str" },
                            { c => [], t => "Space" },
                            { c => [{ c => "emphatic", t => "Str" }], t => "Emph" },
                            { c => [], t => "Space" },
                            { c => "Markdown", t => "Str" },
                            { c => [], t => "Space" },
                            { c => "with", t => "Str" },
                            { c => [], t => "Space" },
                            { c => [["id", ["class"], [["attr", "val"]]], "code"], t => "Code" },
                            { c => ".", t => "Str" },
                          ],
                     t => "Plain",
                   },
                 ],
               ],
          t => "BulletList",
        },
      ],
    ]

Do this with the kind of Markdown snippets you want to modify, and with
the Markdown equivalents of the kind of structures you want to return,
study them carefully, and you will soon get an idea of what the data
looks like.

=head2 Get filter options from pandoc metadata

    my $opts_href = get_meta_opts( 
        +{ doc => $doc, opts => \@opts, default => \%opts, prefix => $pfx }
    );

=over

=item C<< doc => $doc >>

Data structure representing a Pandoc AST decoded from JSON produced by
pandoc. Required.

=item C<< opts => \@opts >>

Arrayref of option names, without prefix. Required.

=item C<< default => \%opts >>

Optional hashref of option defaults, keyed on option names without
prefix. If an option is missing from the metadata it will get the
corresponding value from this hashref.

=item C<< prefix => $pfx >>

optional string prefixed to option names to get metadata keys if the
option name is 'foo' and the prefix is 'filter-name-' then the metadata
key for that option is 'filter-name-foo', but the key in the returned
C<< $opts_href >> will be 'foo'. This is so that you can tell which
options are for this particular filter, but won't need to type the
prefix when accessing elements in the options hashref.

=back

Returns a hashref with OPTION =E<gt> VALUE pairs, without prefix.

Rules for finding an option value:

=over

=item 1.

If the metadata element is not a MetaMap or MetaList:

Returns the value of the first Str, MetaString, MetaBool, Code or
CodeBlock element found in the metadata value.

=item 2.

If the metadata element is a MetaMap:

Returns a hashref where the keys are the keys of the MetaMap and the
values are obtained by recursively applying these rules to the
corresponding MetaMap value.

=item 3.

If the metadata element is a MetaList:

Returns a plain arrayref with the values obtained from the MetaList
values by recursively applying these rules.

=back

Bottom line: you get a data structure as similar to your metadata YAML
block, with non-list, non-map values truncated as per rule 1. This means
you will get strings or JSON::Boolean objects (which stringify as
C<< 0|1 >>), possibly as values of possibly nested hash or array
references.

=head2 Iterate over each Pandoc text element in the document

    rmap_hash { BLOCK } $doc;

The BLOCK is actually a subroutine closure. It will be called once for
each hashref in C<< $doc >>, with C<< $_ >> aliased to the hashref.

If you want to abort processing of the current element you should
C<< return >> without an argument; this is the equivalent of C<< next >>
in a true loop block.

If you want to replace the current element with another you should
assign the new element to C<< $_ >>. The return value from BLOCK isn't
very useful in our case, since Data::

Normally you should first check that C<< $_ >>

Normally the hashref represents a JSON object which represents an
element in the pandoc AST; however this is not always true in the
metadata section, so you should at least check that there is a non-false
't' key and a defined 'c' key in the hashref. If someone populates a
metadata map with two such keys disaster may ensue, so you might want to
warn against that! The return value of the BLOCK is ignored by most
filters, but Data::Rmap collects whatever is returned from the BLOCK and
returns the collected list from rmap_hash()! Return an empty list/return
without arguments to break out of BLOCK. To not visit the contents of
the current hashref break out of the BLOCK by calling cut(); To alter or
replace the current element alter the contents of C<< $_ >> or assign to
C<< $_ >>, Just make sure that C<< $_ >> contains a valid element object
hashref!

Make sure to read the documentation for L<< the Data::Rmap
module|https://metacpan.org/pod/Data::Rmap >>.

rmap_element_lists { BLOCK } $doc;

The BLOCK is actually a subroutine closure. It will be called once for
each element in each list in C<< $doc >> with only hashrefs as values,
with C<< $_ >> aliased to the hashref. Normally the hashref represents a
JSON object which represents an element in the pandoc AST; however this
is not always true in the metadata section, so you should at least check
that there is a non-false 't' key and a defined 'c' key in the hashref.
If someone populates a metadata map with two such keys disaster may
ensue, so you might want to warn against that! Whatever is returned from
the BLOCK is pushed onto the replacement list: to keep the original
hashref return C<< $_ >> to skip this element return an empty
list/return without elements Only ever return an empty list or a (list
of) valid element object hash(es)!

=cut
